St. Patrick’s Day Parade
Saturday, March 4, 1-3 p.m., Madison Street

Family-friendly festivities. Madison Street, Forest Park.

Wine Tasting – Fancy Wines

Thursday, March 2, 7 – 8:30 p.m., Second Floor Admin. Bldg.

Here’s your chance to sip 4 wines valued at $75+ without dishing out a ton of dough. We’ll have a mixed variety of wines and analyze the intricacies of each determining if price and value are truly aligned. Let’s start off 2023 right and dive into some fancy wines. $45. Register tinyurl.com/32z7xp6k. 7501 Harrison Street, Forest Park.

Welcome to Camp Half-Blood Kit
Wednesday, March 8, 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., virtually through Forest Park Public Library

If you’re a fan of Percy Jackson, then we have the perfect kit for you. Each kit will have goodies inspired by the Percy Jackson book series. Designed for ages 11-13. Kits are limited, so please remember to register: tinyurl.com/mswfhk8v. 7555 Jackson Blvd., Forest Park.

Mamma Mia, the Musical

Saturday, March 4 & 11 at 7 p.m., Sunday, March 5 & 12 at 2 p.m.

ABBA songs tell the story of a young woman’s search for her birth father. On the eve of her wedding, a daughter’s quest to discover the identity of her father brings three men from her mother’s past back to the island they last visited 20 years ago. A mother. A daughter. Three possible dates. And a trip down the aisle. OPRF High School Auditorium, 201 N. Scoville Ave. Directed by Michelle Bayer.

Family, Food & Murder: What Makes A Cozy Mystery Series
Monday, March 6, 1:15-2:15 p.m., Nineteenth Century Charitable Organization

Mia P. Manansala, author of Tita Rosie’s Kitchen Mysteries, will discuss the “cozy” mystery subgenre – what makes a novel that way, as well as how the book evolves. Free, but a $15 donation from non-members is suggested. For more information, visit http://www.nineteenthcentury.org.  178 Forest Ave., Oak Park.

American Girl Tea Party
Wednesday, March 8, 4-5 p.m., Oak Park Public Library

Celebrate International Women’s Day by exploring history through American Girl Dolls! Crafts will be made, and tea will be served with snacks. Dolls are also welcome to attend. Dressing up in historical costumes is encouraged. Register now at oppl.org/calendar. 834 Lake St., Oak Park.

Women’s History Month Pictionary
Monday, March 6,  4 – 5 p.m., Forest Park Public Library

Draw clues to help us guess your favorite woman or girl from history or fiction. Ages 8 to 10. Register: tinyurl.com/3vnava5z. 7555 Jackson Blvd., Forest Park.

Julia Child: A Living History Portrayal by Leslie Goddard 
Sunday, March 5, 2-3:30 p.m., River Forest Public Library

Actress and scholar Leslie Goddard brings the late chef and television show host Julia Child to life through this live dramatization. 735 Lathrop Ave., River Forest.
