Dig into your mental and physical wellness during Thrive Week
Feb. 27, 2023 Print | PDF
Thrive Week returns from March 6 to 10, 2023. We've rounded up a few new and returning events that you can register for.

For more events and workshops, check out the full Thrive Week line-up.  

THRIVE KICK-OFF BREAKFAST BAR
10 a.m. to noon (or until supplies last)| Waterloo: Concourse, and Brantford: OM207-46 | Drop In 

Thrive Week starts with a free breakfast, featuring bagels and toppings, yogurt, coffee, and tea. Vegan and gluten-free options will be provided.

CREATIVE WRITING AND MINDFULNESS FOR WELL-BEING
Monday, March 6, 3 to 4 p.m. | Brantford: CB100 | Register in advance 

Explore how creative writing exercises can help you de-stress and boost your mental health.

Swag and Prizes!

You will receive a notebook and pen to support your creative writing and wellness journey.
There will be a prize draw for students who come to the event.
BUILDING RESILIENCE
Tuesday, March 7, 4 to 5 p.m. | Zoom | Register in advance.

Learn how to build your resilience, so you can move from merely surviving the postsecondary experience to actually thriving, so you can better cope with stress and bounce back quicker from adversity.

BEE MINDFUL
Wednesday, March 8, 1 to 2 p.m. | Brantford: OM207-01 | Register in advance by March 6. 

Explore the incredible world of bees and their important role as pollinators. Tour our Laurier apiary on the rooftop of One Market. Slow down and learn about the power of mindfulness through a honey-tasting experience.

SPA-DI-DA
Wednesday, March 8, 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. | Brantford: Student Centre Multipurpose Room | Register in advance.

Join the Accessible Learning Centre for an afternoon of Zen and self-care while we make natural ingredient face masks and take some time to relax! 

MUSIC AND MOOD: BUILD A MOTIVATION-BOOSTING PLAYLIST
Wednesday, March 8, 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. | Waterloo: P111 | Register in advance. 

Music can boost our mood, self-esteem, and memory, while diminishing stress and anxiety. Create your own playlist of curated songs focused on increasing motivation and confidence with fourth-year Community Music student Morgan Myers. Bring a laptop or your phone to the workshop.

JOURNALING FOR YOUR MENTAL WELLNESS
Thursday, March 9, 11 a.m. to noon | Waterloo: P111 | Register in advance. 

Learn how journaling can create a positive impact on mental health and well-being, and act as a relaxation and mindfulness tool. You will get to practice and take home different types of journaling exercises, so you can find the style that best suits you.

Swag alert: You will receive a notebook and pen to support your creative writing and wellness journey.

SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION: COPING WITH CLIMATE GRIEF, ECO ANXIETY AND TAKING ACTION FOR OUR PLANET
Friday, March 10, 1 to 2 p.m. | Zoom | Register in advance.

Discuss climate change, explore the impacts, and learn to normalize sharing our concerns in a collaborative space. We will look at its mental health impacts and how we can redirect our energy towards meaningful action in the community to protect our planet.

Prize potential: By attending, you will be eligible to win a prize.